From: Alberto Marcos Vásquez Schubert <albert@iafe.uba.ar>
Date: Tue, 15 Oct 2019 at 16:59
Subject: Estructura paper FRESWED
To: dlloveras <dlloveras@iafe.uba.ar>, Federico Nuevo <federico@iafe.uba.ar>


Hola Diego,

recién charlamos con Fede del paper. Dos comentarios. Uno es la estructura. Propongo una que creo que puede andar bien como arranque, o quizá ya queda así, parece bastante simple acomodar aquí cualquiera que sea el resultado que queramos mostrar:

0- Title / Abstract

1- Introduction. Aquí se da contexto, se anuncian las técnicas y los targets.

2- Methodology
   2.1 DEMT reconstructions.
   2.2 AWSoM simulations.
   2.3 Tracing results along fieldlines.

3- Results
   3.1 Tomographic Results. Aquí se analizan los resultados DEMT per se y también trazados a lo largo de las lineas. Se comparan las dos rotaciones entre si e incluso con tu paper previo.
   3.2 Tomography and Models

4- Discussion

Con respecto a que mostrar en la sección 3.1. Hay varias cosas. Una que Fede propone es repetir quizá de arranque la misma Figura de Rona a una altura dada versus latitudes. Eso exige saber la latitud promedio de la frontera O/C. A discutir, debo mirar el paper de Rona.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alberto Marcos Vásquez Schubert <albert@iafe.uba.ar>
25 Oct 2019, 15:27
to Nishtha, Ward, dlloveras, Federico
hi Chip, Nishtha,

(this one is a bit long, two full pages of email, but worth it as is defining a series of papers that close Diego's thesis)

Diego will be writing a paper for the Solar Physics topical issue of the FRESWED meeting (http://www.iafe.uba.ar/freswed2019), kind of a follow up to his previous Solar Physics (ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017SoPh..292..153L/abstract).

Using CR-2082 and CR-2208 as targets, we will:

1) Characterize the global thermodynamic state of the inner solar corona in those two solar minima rotations from DEMT.

2) Compare with AWSoM in ways different than Nishtha's paper.

3) Pull out conclusions from the two analysis above.

One important point: For this work, DEMT has been improved (for the two targets) in several aspects, compared to all previously published work. Two main improvements are: a) We now perform hollow-tomography with the EUV images, b) We include radial regularization of the solution (on top of the angular one, so it is a 3D regularized solution). In his previous Solar Physics, Diego analyzed CR-2081, a rotation which is almost identical to CR-2082, so any statistical differences between the new analysis for CR-2082 and the old one for CR-2081 will be due to the improvements in DEMT (this will be kind of a technical sub-result of the two papers). After seeing plots yesterday with Diego and Fede, we are in a position to anticipate that no substantial changes are observed, except at very low heights of the tomographic grid, where now the solution behaves better due to the regularization.

For the two target rotations, Diego traced the DEMT results along the AWSoM field lines, which provides a way to go for the analyses (1) and (2) above discerning different types of magnetic structures. We are right now inclined to classify them in 3 types:

   I - Small-closed field lines. Small meaning with apex within the DEMT range of heights. This class thoroughly probes the inner core of the Streamer belt, where most of the DOWN loops showed up before, and will show up now.

  II - Large-closed field lines. Large meaning their apex surpasses the DEMT range of heights. This class is mostly populated by very large trans-equatorial field lines forming the "envelope" of the Streamer belt.

 III - Open field lines.

With the three objectives above (1,2,3) and this classification in mind (I, II, III), we are thinking to include the following collection of plots:

A) Carrington (Lat/Lon) maps of the DEMT products Ne and Te at selected heights 1.025, 1.105, 1.205 Rsun, over plotting the Open/Closed (O/C) boundary from the AWSoM model. This plot gives initial CONTEXT.

B) Carrington maps of the Lat/Lon location at 1.105 Rs of the field lines I (in blue), II (in red), and III (in green). This shows in a very graphical way which regions of the corona are probed by the three classes of selected field lines. The preliminary plot shown by Diego looks very nice.

C) A plot of the average DEMT Ne(r) along all field lines of type I (in solid-blue), of type II (in solid-red and of type III (in solid-green). Over plotted in the same color code but in dashed-line style the AWSoM results along the same three statistical sample of field-lines. In particular, this shows the global 3D agreement between AWSoM and DEMT in distinct magnetic structures and carefully tracing along field lines (not simply averaging DEMT results in lat and lon within spherical boxes).

D) Same as C) but for Te.

C) and D) will be complemented with companion histograms showing in a statistical fashion how AWSoM and DEMT results compare.

E) As the two rotations are strongly axis-symmetric we want to show the longitude-averaged results of DEMT at a low height, say 1.105 Rsun, along with AWSoM results. In the attached plot we show the DEMT and AWSoM longitude-averaged results at 1.105 Rsun in the top two panels (one for each rotation). The vertical lines indicate the longitude-averaged latitudes of the North and South OC boundary. The LOW panels show the longitude-averaged AWSoM wind speed V_r at 6 Rsun, where all field lines are open. The HCS location is indicated by the minimum of the speed curve. Everything to the South of the HCS maps down to the Southern OPEN region in the top panels, and the same for the Northern hemisphere. It is pretty obvious the ANTI-CORRELATION between the tomographic Ne at low heights (coronal source region of the wind) and the V_r.

This plot (E) has never been shown before and I believe it is a very nice result. There are of course previous studies on this, but this would be the first time this is evaluated with tomography. It is not the terminal speed, but it already shows the fast/slow components. We can show this, or we can go for more. Diego can QUANTIFY the correlation by carefully mapping all open field lines at 6 Rsun down to the DEMT region. He needs to code a bit more to achieve this goal, but we believe it is worth. With that tool done Diego can explore other terminal values of quantities of the AWSoM model and the DEMT results below (expansion factor maybe?). This will be nice to do also for the July-2-2019 Eclipse rotation that we will analyze after this paper. 

As these two rotations, as well as the Eclipse one, are so axis-symmetric, the attached longitude-averaged plots are already very informative. But I believe that carefully mapping the terminal AWSoM quantities down to the DEMT domain is a great tool to develop. I am thinking that once this is done, Diego can work out a follow up paper repeating all this analysis for three target rotations selected from the declining phase of SC 24 with different level of complexity, closer to maxima. As those will show a more complex large-scale structure, longitude-averaged results will be of no interest, and the mapping tool will play a key role. Of course, we will need your simulations for those three rotations.

If we do this, the collection of Diego's papers will conform a nice PhD thesis on semi-empirical (DEMT + MHD modeling) characterization of the global corona ad the solar wind over the last SC.

We also have the LASCO-C2 tomographies to include. Maybe this paper? Maybe the follow ups, for sure in his Thesis.

Finally. Diego is willing to also include an analysis of the energy input flux at the coronal base for the class I and II field lines, as determined from DEMT. We may be able to compare this with AWSoM results too. We need to discuss this.

By the way, we have to submit by end-of-the-year.

I am ultra-busy this next two weeks, writing a proposal, preparing a talk, and attending a meeting (in Chile!). Please circulate any ideas with Diego and keep me in the loop, will look whenever possible!

Cheers,

Alberto.
￼
Attachments area
Preview attachment longitude-averages.png
￼￼
longitude-averages.png
￼
Ward Manchester <chipm@umich.edu>
31 Oct 2019, 19:19
￼￼
to Nishtha, dlloveras, Federico, Alberto
￼
Hi Alberto,

I very much like the plan you have in mind.  I have two questions and a couple of suggestions at this point.

Question:  Point C) Ne Te are averaged what sense?

Question: How will you discretely isolate loops? WIth a uniform spatial distribution of foot points? 

Suggestion:  expansion factor would be very good to include in the analysis. 

Suggestion: It would be interesting to include an analysis over a continuous distribution of the loop heights as well as the small/large classification.

Best Regards,
Chip

PS Sorry for the delay.  Things are unusually busy right now.
￼
￼
Alberto Marcos Vásquez Schubert <albert@iafe.uba.ar>
31 Oct 2019, 19:32
￼￼
to Ward, Nishtha, dlloveras, Federico
￼
hi Chip, no worries, same here. Rushing to finish my talk for Chile
next week (I eave this weekend).

I leave to Diego to expand the answer, maybe with preliminary plots
Diego?, but below the short answers:

On Thu, 31 Oct 2019 at 19:19, Ward Manchester <chipm@umich.edu> wrote:
>
> Hi Alberto,
>
> I very much like the plan you have in mind.  I have two questions and a couple of suggestions at this point.
>
> Question:  Point C) Ne Te are averaged what sense?
>
> Question: How will you discretely isolate loops? WIth a uniform spatial distribution of foot points?

The answer to both questions follows.  We trace field lines sampling
the whole DEMT coronal volume. We do this by setting up starting
points in the center of every tomographic cell at several heights
spanning the DEMT volume. it is important to set up starting points at
several heights. If one sets up only uniform foot points as starting
points, the higher heights are sampled in a quite non uniform fashion
due to the field line expansion.

Now, for each field line we fit Ne(r) and Te(r). We then classify the
field lines in the three classes defined above (motivated by the
previous paper: Lloveras et al. 2017, solar physics). For each class
we average over field lines, so we get a single Ne(r) and Te(r)
profiles, representative of the class. We can do the same for the
AWSoM results. we can then examine how DEMT and AWSoM compare as a
function of height in the three class of field lines, which means
three different coronal regions. Am I clear?

>
> Suggestion:  expansion factor would be very good to include in the analysis.
>
> Suggestion: It would be interesting to include an analysis over a continuous distribution of the loop heights as well as the small/large classification.

Sure, we can do that. May I suggest we first see Diego's preliminary
results with the proposed I, II and III classes? It will be easier to
think of other ideas from that. I do believe those three classes will
show interesting results.

Cheers!
